# Randomizer :game_die:

This demo app is inspired by the Master course organized by DEMERGENT LABS (Jordan Last)in collaboration with ICP ITALIA and is based on: AZLE project .
For more documentation on AZLE please see [The Azle Book](https://demergent-labs.github.io/azle/).

Please remember that Azle is in beta and thus it may have unknown security vulnerabilities due to the following:

- Azle is built with various software packages that have not yet reached maturity
- Azle does not yet have multiple independent security reviews/audits
- Azle does not yet have many live, successful, continuously operating applications deployed to ICP

## Installation :screwdriver:

The azle documentation provides compatibility with mac linux and windows via wsl and wsl2. The first attempts with wsl brought me various problems, among which in particular it created me with every deployment, even locally it consumed my hd and ended up completely exhausting the disk, after a couple of complete restores, however, given the inconvenience of wsl, I decided to try\re linux mint for this project, spoiler: currently I have decided to use it on all my computers without any more windows partition. I recommend working with azle on linux or mac but avoid wsl at least as a personal experience.

For the basic installation of the environment please view the azle documentation (see above)

## Prologue :scroll:

I'm a front end dev also studying solidity and solana. I know the crypto world but I had never delved into ICP.
I found the ICP ITALIA course by chance and signed up. There were two evenings, the first evening there was a presentation in Italian on the basis and strengths of the ICP network. It was very interesting. I also followed the second evening and in English Jordan Last, creator of AZLE and co-founder, gave us a brief explanation of AZLE.
there was the possibility of creating a small project and an attached video but the days to do it were very few I managed to extend them by a couple of days but given all the initial problems and not only it took me several weeks to get to the mainnet a small working demo.

## Idea :bulb:

### Raw_rand

One of the points that Jordan Last underlined several times during the presentation is the MANAGMENT CANISTER and one of its features that creates random numbers. This management canister function can be invoked from any other canister.
Given the renowned low quality of the Javascript random generator, I wanted to create my own app to make this function accessible even from outside the ICP.
the canister management generates an array of bytes with 32 values, therefore an array of length 32 and integers ranging from 0 to 255. the numbers generated by the canister management via its raw_rand function are absolutely impossible to predict.

### Front end on block chain

another point that struck me about icp is that it can host both the back end and the front end of our apps on blockchain so my demo is deployed both front end and back end on blockchain.

### Memory

there is also a counter variable (the number of times the app has been used) be careful, this counter is persistent but if the app is updated or redeployed the counter will reset. Jordan says that the other way of storing data (persistent even in a redploy, a real database) is still in development so I haven't looked into it further.

### Added functionality

The demo app, in addition to exporting the raw_rand canister management functionality outside of icp, adds the possibility of shortening the length of the array via the "draws" parameter and, even more interestingly, I believe, it narrows the range from which to extract the numbers via the "range" parameter, for example if I insert "6" as "range" and "10" as "draws" I will have an array of 10 random numbers ranging from 1 to 6, so for example let's simulate 10 throws of a 6-sided die.

## Curl :loudspeaker:

the backend can also be called directly via a standalone fetch without using the provided front end. for example using curl we generate a simulation of 10 rolls of a 6-sided die:

```
curl -X POST \
 -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
 -d '{"draws": 10, "range": 6}' \
 https://kwjpy-liaaa-aaaap-ahaea-cai.raw.icp0.io/randomness
```

## Deploy :electric_plug:

### Local

### Mainent

## Gitignore :mute:

don't forget to add to your git ignore in the main root:

```
node_modules
.azle
.dfx
```

## Backend :dna:

## Frontend :space_invader:

## Style :lipstick:
